- [Instructor] Okay we have looked
at gender default settings that JSON binding employs
while converting Java to JSON and back to Java.
Now we look at the certain default settings
which are going to be applicable for
the visibility of your properties.
So when I say properties I mean your fields,
or your instance variables that you
have under your Java beans.
Okay, there are certain rules that we have listed out here,
we'll go through them one by one,
and we'll see how JSON binding behaves in each case.
So the first is, let's say you have a private field
with public getter/setters.
So let's go to user bean and check out.
This is exactly what we did, we had all of feeds private
and all the getter/setters lines 33 down there to 63.
All of the getter/setters that we defined were public.
Yes and this is the basic encapsulation principle of
Java object-oriented programming that
all fields should be private
and the getter/setters should be public,
and that's what we did.
And when that happens, yes, the JSON binding API
is going to make sure that it picks up
all the fields for serialization.
That's because it respects the getters/setters first.
So it look at the getter/setters and since they are public
it will quickly understand that yes it can pick them up
in the sense these fields for serialization.
So that's the default thing that we've already seen before.
Let's look at the next combination.
It's a private field with no getter/setters.
So you are trying to have a private field in your bean,
which does not have getter/setters,
so let's understand how that works.
So we'll go ahead and do something, we'll say...
private... we can have let's say long
and creditCardNumber.
So we want maybe to access its credit card number only
in this user bean,
and we don't want that to be accessed outside.
So we're gonna set it inside the bean.
Now if you want to test the scenario,
you will have to make sure that we run
the program right here inside the user class.
That's because we know
the private access modifier rule in Java.
You cannot access the field anywhere outside this class,
okay?
So what I'm going to do, in the user bean itself,
I'll come down, right down, and on line 74 I'm going to
grab the main method here.
So I'll take psvm shortcut, yeah, and control space.
And what we'll do is, we copy the code of our testing class.
So we're going to take this code.
Just go ahead and copy lines 25 to 29,
come back to the user,
and paste them from line 75 to 79.
Okay.
Now once that's done, I of course make sure
that the appropriate imports are provided,
and there we go.
So the user object is ready.
Additionally I'll also set that credit card number to it,
so I don't have to set a field
because we made the field private,
so I'm going to set it directly in this case.
Some number, okay?
Credit card number.
And once we do that,
once we are done with it then...
Okay we have, I think we define the number to
be in digit type,
no, we want a long type, let's go back to...
Line 22, yeah it is indeed long.
It's too long for it, alright.
Okay, so that's the setting.
Now, what we've done is we've set the value for sure,
but we don't know how it is going to be here,
once it actually does the serialization process.
What I mean to say is, along with the ID, the email,
the name, the date of birth,
what happens to the credit card field when
the serialization process happens from Java to JSON.
So I'm going to run this program right here,
and check it out.
You see what the result is?
We got the data but the email, the ID, and the name,
but the credit card number field didn't show up.
That is because since the credit card number field
does not have its own getters/setters,
and as I said JSON binding respects the getter/setters.
So since it does not have that and the field is private,
it will never pick it up for serialization,
that's the rule.
The next one is,
you have public fields without getters/setters.
Alright, so we'll do is we'll modify the same field.
Instead of making the field private on line number 22,
this time we'll make the field public.
And of course we don't have getter/setters even now,
but instead of the private field,
I turned it into a public field.
Now let's go down and let's run this file again.
We'll see the output now,
and do you see that now the credit card number shows up
in the JSON representation.
So that's what it means,
it will first respect the public getters/setters.
If it finds them, good!
It's going to pick the fields for serialization.
Doesn't find them? It's go to the field.
If it's private, it'll ignore it.
But if it's public, yes, good,
again it'll pick it up for serialization.
That's the rule that it goes through when it tries
to do serialization for your fields.
Okay?
The next combination,
it's a public field with private getter/setter.
Which is kind of very odd,
because we never do this kind of situation
in a Java applications.
However, we just take a look at how that behaves.
So let's go to the ID again.
Okay, so we have a public field already,
that's the one.
We'll generate a getter/setter for it first,
and then we make it private.
So I'm going to go on line number 35, right click,
insert code, choose the getter/setter option,
choose that credit card number field,
and say generate.
Okay, and then on line 35 instead
of making the getter public I'm going to make it private.
Similarly I'll make the setter also private.
Okay, now let's check what happens.
Okay, I will run this file again.
Oh, the credit card number does not show up.
I told you right?
I said explicitly that it respects the getter/setters,
so when it finds out that the getter/setters are private,
it'll just ignore even if the field is public.
You get that? That's exactly how this behaves.
So there's no point in making the field public
and putting a private getter/setter
because JSON binding is going to make sure that it looks
at the getter/setters first.
If they are private, it kind of really is disappointed
because it does not want
the getter/setters to be actually private.
So it'll ignore the field as well even if it is public
it does not matter.
So be very careful when you actually try to have your fields
and getter/setters together in your bean.
The rule that the Java platform dictates is
private fields, public getter/setters.
Yes you can protected fields and public getter/setters,
but that's the only thing we always do
to encapsulate a bean in Java.
We will look at the visibility settings for the final static
and transient fields in the next video.